so I just wanted to make a quick video
about inline functions because we're
going to see inline functions shortly
and you need to understand what they are
now as you might guess from the name
when an inline function is compiled its
body is directly substituted for the
function call in other words it's not
compiled to a function at all it's
compiled to its body
now inlining is often done when a
function has a lambda expression for a
parameter because lambdas require the
creation of a class and an object under
the covers
so by inlining a function that takes a
lambda this extra overhead isn't
required not all functions can be
inlined it will depend on how any
function parameters are being used now
the JVM is really good at optimizing
functions so it'll often inline
functions for you when it thinks it will
benefit the application even if you
haven't asked for a function to be
inlined so just because you haven't
declared a function as an inline
function that doesn't mean it won't be
inlined
the JVM might decide that there would be
great benefit to inline it and it will
go ahead and do that now as I said we're
going to discuss inline functions a bit
more later but for now if you want to
function to be inlined you just have to
add the inline keyword and you add it
before the fun keyword so let's go ahead
and inline our label multiply function
so all we have to do is add in line to
the front of the function and when we do
that whenever you add the inline keyword
the compiler will check to see if it
thinks there will be a benefit so if we
hover our mouse over here it'll say
expected performance impact of inlining
public you know blah blah blah can be
insignificant and as it says and as I've
said in lining works best for functions
with lambda parameters so in this case
the compiler is telling us you know
there's no point using the inline
function because you're not gonna get
any benefit from it so you might as well
just keep it as a regular function but I
just wanted to show you where to put the
keyword and I wanted to bring up inline
functions now because you'll need to
understand what they are when we look
at something called reified parameters
when we cover generics so all you have
to understand about inline functions in
addition to how to declare them is that
when you have an inline function the
function body will be directly generated
into the byte code wherever the function
is called rather than having a function
call okay so that's it for inline
functions for now